Add comprehensive project layout best practices (#17006)
pulumi/docs: content/docs/iac/guides/basics/organizing-projects-stacks/_index.md

#### Flat structure (simple projects)

For smaller projects with a handful of resources, a flat structure works well:

```
my-project/
├── Pulumi.yaml
├── Pulumi.dev.yaml
├── Pulumi.prod.yaml
├── index.ts          # Main entrypoint
└── config.ts         # Config helpers and constants
```

**When to use:** Small projects, prototypes, or single-purpose stacks with fewer than ~20 resources.

#### Organized by resource layer

For medium-sized projects, organize files by infrastructure layer:

```
my-project/
├── Pulumi.yaml
├── Pulumi.dev.yaml
├── Pulumi.prod.yaml
├── index.ts              # Main entrypoint, imports and composes layers
├── networking.ts         # VPCs, subnets, security groups
├── compute.ts            # EC2, ECS, Lambda, etc.
├── storage.ts            # S3, RDS, DynamoDB, etc.
├── iam.ts                # IAM roles, policies, users
└── monitoring.ts         # CloudWatch, alarms, dashboards
```

**When to use:** Projects with clear separation between infrastructure concerns. This mirrors how cloud architects typically think about infrastructure.

#### Organized by service/feature

For projects that deploy multiple logical services:

```
my-project/
├── Pulumi.yaml

> ├── index.ts              # Main entrypoint

Reviewer: This example's missing the stack files, which leaves you sort of wondering. Maybe this, for consistency with (and as an alternative to) the previous example?

```suggestion
├── Pulumi.dev.yaml
├── Pulumi.prod.yaml
├── index.ts              # Main entrypoint
```

├── shared/
│   ├── networking.ts     # Shared VPC, DNS
│   └── iam.ts            # Shared IAM resources
├── api/
│   ├── index.ts          # API Gateway, Lambda functions
│   └── routes.ts         # Route definitions
├── web/
│   ├── index.ts          # CloudFront, S3 bucket
│   └── cdn.ts            # CDN configuration
└── data/
    ├── index.ts          # Database resources
    └── migrations.ts     # Migration helpers
```

**When to use:** Applications with multiple distinct components that share some common infrastructure.

### Pulumi-specific organization tips

**Configuration helpers:** Create a dedicated file for reading and validating configuration:

```typescript
// config.ts
import * as pulumi from "@pulumi/pulumi";

const config = new pulumi.Config();

export const environment = pulumi.getStack();
export const region = config.require("region");
export const instanceSize = config.get("instanceSize") || "t3.medium";

// Validate config at program start
if (!["dev", "staging", "prod"].includes(environment)) {
    throw new Error(`Unknown environment: ${environment}`);

> }

Reviewer: Is this (hard-coding "allowed" stack names) a common pattern? I haven't seen it much myself — but if it's something we think is a best practice, or that we see in the wild, I'd be okay with it. Otherwise, might nix, or replace with something more common (reading another file, from ENV, from an async service, etc.).

Reviewer 2: @jkodroff is this something we ever see in the wild?

Reviewer 3: This is just not a good practice IMO. The environment name is usually synonymous with the stack name, and to me, by virtue of a stack being initialized, it's valid, not something we need to validate after the fact.

```

> **Resource naming conventions:** Centralize naming logic to ensure consistency:

Reviewer: Maybe a personal nit, but this pattern of

**Fragment with a colon:** Followed by another sentence or fragment with a colon:

... is a bit awkward syntactically (and carries a whiff of AI) to me. If we aren't using the patten elsewhere, I'm generally more partial to subheads for the bold parts, like this:

```suggestion
#### Resource naming conventions

Centralize naming logic to ensure consistency:
```

... which also makes room for additional explanation, but wonder what @CamSoper thinks.

```typescript
// naming.ts
import * as pulumi from "@pulumi/pulumi";

const project = pulumi.getProject();
const stack = pulumi.getStack();

> export function name(resourceName: string): string {

Reviewer: Slightly more descriptive:

```suggestion
export function qualifiedName(resourceName: string): string {
```

    return `${project}-${stack}-${resourceName}`;
}

> ```

Reviewer: This one could also benefit from a usage example (again, simple, but would make the usefulness clearer IMO).

Reviewer 3: I don't think this is needed at all with latest and greatest autonaming.

> **Application code alongside infrastructure:** If your Pulumi project also contains application code (such as Lambda function code or Docker build contexts), keep them in clearly labeled directories:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Application code alongside infrastructure:** If your Pulumi project also contains application code (such as Lambda function code or Docker build contexts), consider organizing it into clearly labeled directories:
```

```
my-project/
├── Pulumi.yaml
├── index.ts
├── infra/                # Infrastructure definitions
│   ├── api.ts
│   └── database.ts
├── app/                  # Application code
│   ├── lambda/           # Lambda function source
│   │   └── handler.ts
│   └── docker/           # Dockerfiles and app source
│       └── Dockerfile
└── scripts/              # Build and deployment scripts
    └── build.sh
```

### When to split into separate projects

> Consider moving code to a separate Pulumi project when:

Reviewer: This reads a bit awkwardly because the bullets don't quite line up with the preceding fragment. Maybe this?

```suggestion
Consider moving code to a separate Pulumi project when you have:
```

## Organizing your project code

Within your Pulumi project, there are good practices to consider to help keep your code organized, maintainable, and understandable. While Pulumi doesn't enforce a specific project structure, following consistent patterns makes your infrastructure code easier to navigate, review, and maintain.

### Common project structures

Here are several approaches to organizing files within a Pulumi project, each with different tradeoffs:

#### Flat structure (simple projects)

For smaller projects with a handful of resources, a flat structure works well:

```
my-project/
├── Pulumi.yaml
├── Pulumi.dev.yaml
├── Pulumi.prod.yaml
├── index.ts          # Main entrypoint
└── config.ts         # Config helpers and constants
```

**When to use:** Small projects, prototypes, or single-purpose stacks with fewer than ~20 resources.

#### Organized by resource layer

> For medium-sized projects, organize files by infrastructure layer:

Reviewer 3: I disagree on this. I would keep all resources in the entrypoint file, except for (local) components, which nearly always go in a separate file. If there's a local library or maybe structured config classes, those would also each go in a separate file.
